<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>III</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-3" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>CHAPTER <span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span>.<br/>
			 The Doctor’s Revelations</h2>
			<p>It was in the evening of the very day on which I took up my duties at number 61 Mecklenburgh-square that the little blue paper was delivered summoning me to attend at the inquest on the following day. Fortunately, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Cornish’s practice was not of a highly strenuous type, and the time of year tended to a small visiting list, so that I had no difficulty in making the necessary arrangements. In fact, I made them so well that I was the first to arrive at the little building in which the inquiry was to be held and was admitted by the caretaker to the empty room. A few minutes later, however, the inspector made his appearance, and while I was exchanging a few words with him the jury began to straggle in, followed by the reporters, a few spectators and witnesses, and finally the coroner, who immediately took his place at the head of the table and prepared to open the proceedings.</p>
			<p>At this moment I observed Miss D’Arblay standing hesitatingly in the doorway and looking into the room as if reluctant to enter. I at once rose and went to her, and as I approached she greeted me with a friendly smile and held out her hand; and I then perceived, lurking just outside, a tall, black-apparelled woman, whose face I recognized as that which I had seen at the window.</p>
			<p>“This,” said Miss D’Arblay, presenting me, “is my friend, Miss Boler, of whom I spoke to you. This, Arabella dear, is the gentleman who was so kind to me on that dreadful day.”</p>
			<p>I bowed deferentially, and Miss Boler recognized my existence by a majestic inclination, remarking that she remembered me. As the coroner now began his preliminary address to the jury, I hastened to find three chairs near the table, and, having inducted the ladies into two of them, took the third myself, next to Miss D’Arblay. The coroner and the jury now rose and went out to the adjacent mortuary to view the body, and during their absence I stole an occasional critical glance at my fair friend.</p>
			<p>Marion D’Arblay was, as I have said, a strikingly handsome girl. The fact seemed now to dawn on me afresh, as a new discovery; for the harrowing circumstances of our former meeting had so preoccupied me that I had given little attention to her personality. But now, as I looked her over anxiously to see how the grievous days had dealt with her, it was with a sort of surprised admiration that I noted the beautiful, thoughtful face, the fine features, and the wealth of dark, gracefully disposed hair. I was relieved, too, to see the change that a couple of days had wrought. The wild, dazed look was gone. Though she was pale and heavy-eyed and looked tired and infinitely sad, her manner was calm, quiet and perfectly self-possessed.</p>
			<p>“I am afraid,” said I, “that this is going to be rather a painful ordeal for you.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” she agreed; “it is all very dreadful. But it is a dreadful thing in any case to be bereft in a moment of the one whom one loves best in all the world. The circumstances of the loss cannot make very much difference. It is the loss itself that matters. The worst moment was when the blow fell⁠—when we found him. This inquiry and the funeral are just the drab accompaniments that bring home the reality of what has happened.”</p>
			<p>“Has the inspector called on you?” I asked.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” she replied. “He had to, to get the particulars; and he was so kind and delicate that I am not in the least afraid of the examination by the coroner. Every one has been kind to me, but none so kind as you were on that terrible morning.”</p>
			<p>I could not see that I had done anything to call for so much gratitude, and I was about to enter a modest disclaimer when the coroner and the jury returned, and the inspector approached somewhat hurriedly.</p>
			<p>“It will be necessary,” said he, “for Miss D’Arblay to see the body⁠—just to identify deceased; a glance will be enough. And, as you are a witness, Doctor, you had better go with her to the mortuary. I will show you the way.”</p>
			<p>Miss D’Arblay rose without any comment or apparent reluctance, and we followed the inspector to the adjoining mortuary, where, having admitted us, he stood outside awaiting us. The body lay on the slate-topped table, covered with a sheet excepting the face, which was exposed and was undisfigured by any traces of the examination. I watched my friend a little nervously as we entered the grim chamber, fearful that this additional trial might be too much for her self-control. But she kept command of herself, though she wept quietly as she stood beside the table looking down on the still, waxen-faced figure. After standing thus for a few moments, she turned away with a smothered sob, wiped her eyes, and walked out of the mortuary.</p>
			<p>When we re-entered the court-room, we found our chairs moved up to the table, and the coroner waiting to call the witnesses. As I had expected, my name was the first on the list, and, on being called, I took my place by the table near to the coroner and was duly sworn.</p>
			<p>“Will you give us your name, occupation, and address?” the coroner asked.</p>
			<p>“My name is Stephen Gray,” I replied. “I am a medical practitioner, and my temporary address is 61, Mecklenburgh-square, London.”</p>
			<p>“When you say ‘your temporary address’ you mean⁠—?”</p>
			<p>“I am taking charge of a medical practice at that address. I shall be there six weeks or more.”</p>
			<p>“Then that will be your address for our purposes. Have you viewed the body that is now lying in the mortuary, and, if so, do you recognize it?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. It is the body which I saw lying in a pond in Church-yard Bottom Wood on the morning of the 16th instant⁠—last Tuesday.”</p>
			<p>“Can you tell us how long deceased had been dead when you first saw the body?”</p>
			<p>“I should say he had been dead nine or ten hours.”</p>
			<p>“Will you relate the circumstances under which you discovered the body?”</p>
			<p>I gave a circumstantial account of the manner in which I made the tragic discovery, to which not only the jury but also the spectators listened with eager interest. When I had finished my narrative, the coroner asked: “Did you observe anything which led you, as a medical man, to form any opinion as to the cause of death?”</p>
			<p>“No,” I replied. “I saw no injuries or marks of violence or anything which was not consistent with death by drowning.”</p>
			<p>This concluded my evidence, and when I had resumed my seat, the name of Marion D’Arblay was called by the coroner, who directed that a chair should be placed for the witness. When she had taken her seat, he conveyed to her, briefly, but feelingly, his own and the jury’s sympathy.</p>
			<p>“It has been a terrible experience for you,” he said, “and we are most sorry to have to trouble you in your great affliction, but you will understand that it is unavoidable.”</p>
			<p>“I quite understand that,” she replied, “and I wish to thank you and the jury for your kind sympathy.”</p>
			<p>She was then sworn, and having given her name and address, proceeded to answer the questions addressed to her, which elicited a narrative of the events substantially identical with that which she had given to the inspector and which I have already recorded.</p>
			<p>“You have told us,” said the coroner, “that when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Gray spoke to you, you were searching among the bushes. Will you tell us what was in your mind⁠—what you were searching for, and what induced you to make that search?”</p>
			<p>“I was very uneasy about my father,” she replied. “He had not been home that night, and he had not told me that he intended to stay at the studio⁠—as he sometimes did when he was working very late. So, in the morning I went to the studio in Abbey-road to see if he was there; but the caretaker told me that he had started for home about ten o’clock. Then I began to fear that something had happened to him, and as he always came home by the path through the wood, I went there to see if⁠—if anything had happened to him.”</p>
			<p>“Had you in your mind any definite idea as to what might have happened to him?”</p>
			<p>“I thought he might have been taken ill or have fallen down dead. He once told me that he would probably die quite suddenly. I believe that he suffered from some affection of the heart, but he did not like speaking about his health.”</p>
			<p>“Are you sure that there was nothing more than this in your mind?”</p>
			<p>“There was nothing more. I thought that his heart might have failed and that he might have wandered, in a half-conscious state, away from the main path and fallen dead in one of the thickets.”</p>
			<p>The coroner pondered this reply for some time. I could not see why, for it was plain and straightforward enough. At length he said, very gravely and with what seemed to me unnecessary emphasis:</p>
			<p>“I want you to be quite frank and open with us, Miss D’Arblay. Can you swear that there was no other possibility in your mind than that of sudden illness?”</p>
			<p>She looked at him in surprise, apparently not understanding the drift of the question. As to me, I assumed that he was endeavoring delicately to ascertain whether deceased was addicted to drink.</p>
			<p>“I have told you exactly what was in my mind,” she replied.</p>
			<p>“Have you ever had any reason to suppose, or to entertain the possibility, that your father might take his own life?”</p>
			<p>“Never,” she answered emphatically. “He was a happy, even-tempered man, always interested in his work, and always in good spirits. I am sure he would never have taken his own life.”</p>
			<p>The coroner nodded with a rather curious air of satisfaction, as if he were concurring with the witness’s statement. Then he asked in the same grave, emphatic manner:</p>
			<p>“So far as you know, had your father any enemies?”</p>
			<p>“No,” she replied confidently. “He was a kindly, amiable man who disliked nobody, and every one who knew him loved him.”</p>
			<p>As she uttered this panegyric (and what prouder testimony could a daughter have given?), her eyes filled, and the coroner looked at her with deep sympathy but yet with a somewhat puzzled expression.</p>
			<p>“You are sure,” he said gently, “that there was no one whom he might have injured⁠—even inadvertently⁠—or who bore him any grudge or ill-will?”</p>
			<p>“I am sure,” she answered, “that he never injured or gave offence to any one, and I do not believe that there was any person in the whole world who bore him anything but goodwill.”</p>
			<p>The coroner noted this reply, and as he entered it in the depositions his face bore the same curious puzzled or doubtful expression. When he had written the answer down, he asked:</p>
			<p>“By the way, what was the deceased’s occupation?”</p>
			<p>“He was a sculptor by profession, but in late years he worked principally as a modeller for various trades⁠—pottery manufacturers, picture-frame makers, carvers, and the makers of high-class wax figures for shop windows.”</p>
			<p>“Had he any assistants or subordinates?”</p>
			<p>“No. He worked alone. Occasionally I helped him with his moulds when he was very busy or had a very large work on hand; but usually he did everything himself. Of course, he occasionally employed models.”</p>
			<p>“Do you know who those models were?”</p>
			<p>“They were professional models. The men, I think, were all Italians, and some of the women were too. I believe my father kept a list of them in his address book.”</p>
			<p>“Was he working from a model on the night of his death?”</p>
			<p>“No. He was making the moulds for a porcelain statuette.”</p>
			<p>“Did you ever hear that he had any kind of trouble with his models?”</p>
			<p>“Never. He seemed always on the best of terms with them, and he used to speak of them most appreciatively.”</p>
			<p>“What sort of persons are professional models? Should you say they are a decent, well-conducted class?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. They are usually most respectable, hard-working people; and, of course, they are sober and decent in their habits or they would be of no use for their professional duties.”</p>
			<p>The coroner meditated on these replies with a speculative eye on the witness. After a short pause, he began along another line.</p>
			<p>“Did deceased ever carry about with him property of any considerable value?”</p>
			<p>“Never, to my knowledge.”</p>
			<p>“No jewellery, plate, or valuable material?”</p>
			<p>“No. His work was practically all in plaster or wax. He did no goldsmith’s work and he used no precious material.”</p>
			<p>“Did he ever have any considerable sums of money about him?”</p>
			<p>“No. He received all his payments by cheque and he made his payments in the same way. His habit was to carry very little money on his person⁠—usually not more than one or two pounds.”</p>
			<p>Once more the coroner reflected profoundly. It seemed to me that he was trying to elicit some fact⁠—I could not imagine what⁠—and was failing utterly. At length, after another puzzled look at the witness, he turned to the jury and inquired if any of them wished to put any questions; and when they had severally shaken their heads he thanked Miss D’Arblay for the clear and straightforward way in which she had given her evidence and released her.</p>
			<p>While the examination had been proceeding, I had allowed my eyes to wander round the room with some curiosity: for this was the first time that I had ever been present at an inquest. From the jury, the witnesses in waiting and the reporters⁠—among whom I tried to identify <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Thorndyke’s stenographer⁠—my attention was presently transferred to the spectators. There were only a few of them, but I found myself wondering why there should be any. What kind of person attends as a spectator at an ordinary inquest such as this appeared to be? The newspaper reports of the finding of the body were quite unsensational and promised no startling developments. Finally I decided that they were probably local residents who had some knowledge of the deceased and were just indulging their neighbourly curiosity.</p>
			<p>Among them my attention was particularly attracted by a middle-aged woman who sat near me: at least I judged her to be middle-aged, though the rather dense black veil that she wore obscured her face to a great extent. Apparently she was a widow, and advertised the fact by the orthodox, old-fashioned “weeds.” But I could see that she had white hair and wore spectacles. She held a folded newspaper on her knee, apparently dividing her attention between the printed matter and the proceedings of the court. She gave me the impression of having come in to spend an idle hour, combining a somewhat perfunctory reading of the paper with a still more perfunctory attention to the rather gruesome entertainment that the inquest afforded.</p>
			<p>The next witness called was the doctor who had made the official examination of the body; on whom my bereaved friend bestowed a listless, incurious glance and then returned to her newspaper. He was a youngish man, though his hair was turning gray, with a quiet but firm and confident manner and a very clear, pleasant voice. The preliminaries having been disposed of, the coroner led off with the question:</p>
			<p>“You have made an examination of the body of the deceased?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. It is that of a well-proportioned, fairly muscular man of about sixty, quite healthy with the exception of the heart, one of the valves of which⁠—the mitral valve⁠—was incompetent and allowed some leakage of blood to take place.”</p>
			<p>“Was the heart affection sufficient to account for the death of deceased?”</p>
			<p>“No. It was quite a serviceable heart. There was good compensation⁠—that is to say, there was extra growth of muscle to make up for the leaky valve. So far as his heart was concerned, deceased might have lived for another twenty years.”</p>
			<p>“Were you able to ascertain what actually was the cause of death?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. The cause of death was aconitine poisoning.”</p>
			<p>At this reply a murmur of astonishment arose from the jury, and I heard Miss D’Arblay suddenly draw in her breath. The spectators sat up on their benches, and even the veiled lady was so far interested as to look up from her paper.</p>
			<p>“How had the poison been administered?” the coroner asked.</p>
			<p>“It had been injected under the skin by means of a hypodermic syringe.”</p>
			<p>“Can you give an opinion as to whether the poison was administered to deceased by himself or by some other person?”</p>
			<p>“It could not have been injected by deceased himself,” the witness replied. “The needle-puncture was in the back, just below the left shoulder-blade. It is, in my opinion, physically impossible for any one to inject into his own body with a hypodermic syringe in that spot. And, of course, a person who was administering an injection to himself would select the most convenient spot⁠—such as the front of the thigh. But apart from the question of convenience, the place in which the needle-puncture was found was actually out of reach.” Here the witness produced a hypodermic syringe, the action of which he demonstrated with the aid of a glass of water; and having shown the impossibility of applying it to the spot that he had described, passed the syringe round for the jury’s inspection.</p>
			<p>“Have you formed any opinion as to the purpose for which this drug was administered in this manner?”</p>
			<p>“I have no doubt that it was administered for the purpose of causing the death of deceased.”</p>
			<p>“Might it not have been administered for medicinal purposes?”</p>
			<p>“That is quite inconceivable. Leaving out of consideration the circumstances⁠—the time and place where the administration occurred⁠—the dose excludes the possibility of medicinal purposes. It was a lethal dose. From the tissues round the needle-puncture we recovered the twelfth of a grain of aconitine. That alone was more than enough to cause death. But a quantity of the poison had been absorbed, as was shown by the fact that we recovered a recognizable trace from the liver.”</p>
			<p>“What is the medicinal dose of aconitine?”</p>
			<p>“The maximum medicinal dose is about the four-hundredth of a grain, and even that is not very safe. As a matter of fact, aconitine is very seldom used in medical practice. It is a dangerous drug, and of no particular value.”</p>
			<p>“How much aconitine do you suppose was injected?”</p>
			<p>“Not less than the tenth of a grain⁠—that is about forty times the maximum medicinal dose. Probably more.”</p>
			<p>“There can, I suppose, be no doubt as to the accuracy of the facts that you have stated⁠—as to the nature and quantity of the poison?”</p>
			<p>“There can be no doubt whatever. The analysis was made in my presence by Professor Woodford, of <abbr>St.</abbr> Margaret’s Hospital, after I had removed the tissues from the body in his presence. He has not been called because, in accordance with the procedure under Coroner’s Law, I am responsible for the analysis and the conclusions drawn from it.”</p>
			<p>“Taking the medical facts as known to you, are you able to form an opinion as to what took place when the poison was administered?”</p>
			<p>“That,” the witness replied, “is a matter of inference or conjecture. I infer that the person who administered the poison thrust the needle violently into the back of the deceased, intending to inject the poison into the chest. Actually, the needle struck a rib and bent up sharply, so that the contents of the syringe were delivered just under the skin. Then I take it that the assailant ran away⁠—probably towards the pond⁠—and deceased pursued him. Very soon the poison would take effect, and then deceased would have fallen. He may have fallen into the pond, or more probably, was thrown in. He was alive when he fell into the pond, as is proved by the presence of water in the lungs; but he must then have been insensible; and in a dying condition, for there was no water in the stomach, which proves that the swallowing reflex had already ceased.”</p>
			<p>“Your considered opinion, then, based on the medical facts ascertained by you, is, I understand, that deceased died from the effects of a poison injected into his body by some other person with homicidal intent?”</p>
			<p>“Yes; that is my considered opinion, and I affirm that the facts do not admit of any other interpretation.”</p>
			<p>The coroner looked towards the jury. “Do any of you gentlemen wish to ask the witness any questions?” he inquired; and when the foreman had replied that the jury were entirely satisfied with the doctor’s explanations, he thanked the witness, who thereupon retired. The medical witness was succeeded by the inspector, who made a short statement respecting the effects found on the person of deceased. They comprised a small sum of money⁠—under two pounds⁠—a watch, keys, and other articles, none of them of any appreciable value, but, such as they were, furnishing evidence that at least petty robbery had not been the object of the attack.</p>
			<p>When the last witness had been heard, the coroner glanced at his notes and then proceeded to address the jury.</p>
			<p>“There is little, gentlemen,” he began, “that I need say to you. The facts are before you, and they seem to admit of only one interpretation. I remind you that, by the terms of your oath, your finding must be ‘according to the evidence.’ Now the medical evidence is quite clear and definite. It is to the effect that deceased met his death by poison, administered violently by some other person: that is by homicide. Homicide is the killing of a human being, and it may or may not be criminal. But if the homicidal act is done with the intent to kill; if that intention has been deliberately formed⁠—that is to say, if the homicidal act has been premeditated; then that homicide is wilful murder.</p>
			<p>“Now the person who killed the deceased came to the place where the act was done provided with a solution of a very powerful and uncommon vegetable poison. He was also provided with a very special appliance⁠—to wit, a hypodermic syringe⁠—for injecting it into the body. The fact that he was furnished with the poison and the appliance creates a strong enough presumption that he came to this place with the deliberate intention of killing the deceased. That is to say, this fact constitutes strong evidence of premeditation.</p>
			<p>“As to the motive for this act, we are completely in the dark; nor have we any evidence pointing to the identity of the person who committed that act. But a coroner’s inquest is not necessarily concerned with motives, nor is it our business to fix the act on any particular person. We have to find how and by what means the deceased met his death; and for that purpose we have clear and sufficient evidence. I need say no more, but will leave you to agree upon your finding.”</p>
			<p>There was a brief interval of silence when the coroner had finished speaking. The jury whispered together for a few seconds; then the foreman announced that they had agreed upon their verdict.</p>
			<p>“And what is your decision, gentlemen?” the coroner asked.</p>
			<p>“We find,” was the reply, “that deceased met his death by wilful murder, committed by some person unknown.”</p>
			<p>The coroner bowed. “I am in entire agreement with you, gentlemen,” said he. “No other verdict was possible, and I am sure you will join me in the hope that the wretch who committed this dastardly crime may be identified and in due course brought to justice.”</p>
			<p>This brought the proceedings to an end. As the Court rose the spectators filed out of the building and the coroner approached Miss D’Arblay to express once more his deep sympathy with her in her tragic bereavement. I stood apart with Miss Boler, whose rugged face was wet with tears, but set in a grim and wrathful scowl.</p>
			<p>“Things have taken a terrible turn,” I ventured to observe.</p>
			<p>She shook her head and uttered a sort of low growl. “It won’t bear thinking of,” she said gruffly. “There is no possible retribution that would meet the case. One has thought that some of the old punishments were cruel and barbarous, but if I could lay my hands on the villain that did this⁠—” She broke off, leaving the conclusion to my imagination, and in an extraordinarily different voice said: “Come, Miss Marion, let us get out of this awful place.”</p>
			<p>As we walked away slowly and in silence, I looked at Miss D’Arblay, not without anxiety. She was very pale, and the dazed expression that her face had borne on the fatal day of the discovery had, to some extent, reappeared. But now the signs of bewilderment and grief were mingled with something new. The rigid face, the compressed lips, and lowered brows spoke of a deep and abiding wrath.</p>
			<p>Suddenly she turned to me and said, abruptly, almost harshly:</p>
			<p>“I was wrong in what I said to you before the inquiry. You remember that I said that the circumstances of the loss could make no difference; but they make a whole world of difference. I had supposed that my dear father had died as he had thought he would die; that it was the course of Nature, which we cannot rebel against. Now I know, from what the doctor said, that he might have lived on happily for the full span of human life but for the malice of this unknown wretch. His life was not lost; it was stolen⁠—from him and from me.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” I said somewhat lamely. “It is a horrible affair.”</p>
			<p>“It is beyond bearing!” she exclaimed. “If his death had been natural, I would have tried to resign myself to it. I would have tried to put my grief away. But to think that his happy, useful life has been snatched from him⁠—that he has been torn from us who loved him by the deliberate act of this murderer⁠—it is unendurable. It will be with me every hour of my life until I die. And every hour I shall call on God for justice against this wretch.”</p>
			<p>I looked at her with a sort of admiring surprise. A quiet, gentle girl as I believed her to be at ordinary times, now, with her flushed cheeks, her flashing eyes and ominous brows, she reminded me of one of the heroines of the French Revolution. Her grief seemed to be merged in a longing for vengeance.</p>
			<p>While she had been speaking Miss Boler had kept up a running accompaniment in a deep, humming bass. I could not catch the words⁠—if there were any⁠—but was aware only of a low, continuous bourdon. She now said with grim decision:</p>
			<p>“God will not let him escape. He shall pay the debt to the uttermost farthing.” Then, with sudden fierceness, she added: “If I should ever meet with him I could kill him with my own hand.”</p>
			<p>After this both women relapsed into silence, which I was loth to interrupt. The circumstances were too tragic for conversation. When we reached their gate Miss D’Arblay held out her hand and once again thanked me for my help and sympathy.</p>
			<p>“I have done nothing,” said I, “that any stranger would not have done, and I deserve no thanks. But I should like to think that you will look on me as a friend, and if you should need any help will let me have the privilege of being of use to you.”</p>
			<p>“I look on you as a friend already,” she replied; “and I hope you will come and see us sometimes⁠—when we have settled down to our new conditions of life.”</p>
			<p>As Miss Boler seemed to confirm this invitation, I thanked them both and took my leave, glad to think that I had now a recognized status as a friend and might pursue a project which had formed in my mind even before we had left the court-house.</p>
			<p>The evidence of the murder, which had fallen like a thunderbolt on us all, had a special significance for me; for I knew that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Thorndyke was behind this discovery, though to what extent I could not judge. The medical witness was an obviously capable man, and it might be that he would have made the discovery without assistance. But a needle-puncture in the back is a very inconspicuous thing. Ninety-nine doctors in a hundred would almost certainly have overlooked it, especially in the case of a body apparently “found drowned,” and seeming to call for no special examination beyond the search for gross injuries. The revelation was very characteristic of Thorndyke’s methods and principles. It illustrated in a most striking manner the truth which he was never tired of insisting on: that it is never safe to accept obvious appearances, and that every case, no matter how apparently simple and commonplace, should be approached with suspicion and scepticism and subjected to the most rigorous scrutiny. That was precisely what had been done in this case; and thereby an obvious suicide had been resolved into a cunningly planned and skilfully executed murder. It was quite possible that, but for my visit to Thorndyke, those cunning plans would have succeeded and the murderer have secured the cover of a verdict of “Death by misadventure” or “Suicide while temporarily insane.” At any rate, the results had justified me in invoking <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Thorndyke’s aid; and the question now arose whether it would be possible to retain him for the further investigation of the case.</p>
			<p>This was the project that had occurred to me as I listened to the evidence and realized how completely the unknown murderer had covered up his tracks. But there were difficulties. Thorndyke might consider such an investigation outside his province. Again, the costs involved might be on a scale entirely beyond my means. The only thing to be done was to call on Thorndyke and hear what he had to say on the subject, and this I determined to do on the first opportunity. And having formed this resolution, I made my way back by the shortest route to Mecklenburgh-square, where the evening consultations were now nearly due.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
