<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-15" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>CHAPTER <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XV</span>.<br/>
			 Thorndyke Proposes a New Move</h2>
			<p>On the following morning, in order to make sure of arriving before the detective officer, I presented myself at King’s Bench-walk a good half-hour before I was due. The door was opened by Thorndyke himself, and as we shook hands he said: “I am glad you have come early, Gray. No doubt Polton explained the programme to you, but I should like to make our position quite clear. The officer who is coming here presently is Detective-Superintendent Miller, of the Criminal Investigation Department. He is quite an old friend, and he is coming at my request to give me certain information. But, of course, he is a detective officer, with his own duties to his department, and an exceedingly shrewd, capable man. Naturally, if he can pick up any crumbs of information from us, he will; and I don’t want him to learn more, at present, than I choose to tell him.”</p>
			<p>“Why do you want to keep him in the dark?” I asked.</p>
			<p>“Because,” he replied, “we are doing quite well, and I want to get the case complete before I call in the police. If I were to tell him all I know and all I think, he might get too busy, and scare our man away before we have enough evidence to justify an arrest. As soon as the investigation is finished, and we have such evidence as will secure a conviction, I shall turn the case over to him; meanwhile, we keep our own counsel. Your rôle this morning will be that of listener. Whatever happens, make no comment. Act as if you knew nothing that is not of public knowledge.”</p>
			<p>I promised to follow his directions to the letter, though I could not get rid of the feeling that all this secrecy was somewhat futile. Then I began to tell him of my experiences of the previous night, to which he listened at first with grave interest, but with growing amusement as the story developed. When I came to the final chase and the pursuing policeman, he leaned back in his chair and laughed heartily.</p>
			<p>“Why,” he exclaimed, wiping his eyes, “it was a regular procession! It only wanted a string of sausages and a harlequin to bring it up to pantomime form.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” I admitted with a grin, “it was a ludicrous affair. But it was a mighty mysterious affair too. You see, neither of the men was the man I had expected. There must be more people in this business than we had supposed. Have you any idea who these men can be?”</p>
			<p>“It isn’t much use making vague guesses,” he replied. “The important point to note is that this incident, farcical as it turned out, might easily have taken a tragical turn; and the moral is that for the present you can’t be too careful in keeping out of harm’s way.”</p>
			<p>It was obvious to me that he was evading my question; that those two sinister strangers were not the mystery to him that they were to me, and I was about to return to the charge with a more definitely pointed question when an elaborate flourish on the little brass knocker of the inner door announced a visitor.</p>
			<p>The tall, military-looking man whom Thorndyke admitted was evidently the Superintendent, as I gathered from the mutual greetings. He looked rather hard at me until Thorndyke introduced me, which he did with characteristic reticence.</p>
			<p>“This is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Gray, Miller; you may remember his name. It was he who discovered the body of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> D’Arblay.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, I remember,” said the Superintendent, shaking my hand unemotionally and still looking at me with a slightly dubious air.</p>
			<p>“He is a good deal interested in the case,” Thorndyke continued, “not only professionally, but as a friend of the family⁠—since the catastrophe.”</p>
			<p>“I see,” said the Superintendent, taking a final inquisitive look at me and obviously wondering why the deuce I was there. “Well, there is nothing of a very secret nature in what I have to tell you, and I suppose you can rely on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Gray to keep his own counsel and ours.”</p>
			<p>“Certainly,” replied Thorndyke. “He quite understands that our talk is confidential, even if it is not secret.”</p>
			<p>The officer nodded, and, having been inducted into an easy chair, by the side of which a decanter, a siphon, and a box of cigars had been placed, settled himself comfortably, lit a cigar, mixed himself a modest refresher, and drew from his pocket a bundle of papers secured with red tape.</p>
			<p>“You asked me, Doctor,” he began, “to get you all particulars up to date of the Van Zellen case. Well, I can do that without difficulty as the case⁠—or at least what is left of it⁠—is in my hands. The circumstances of the actual crime I think you know already, so I will take up the story from that point.</p>
			<p>“Van Zellen, as you know, was found dead in his room, poisoned with prussic acid, and a quantity of very valuable portable property was missing. It was not clear whether the murderer had let himself in with false keys or whether Van Zellen had let him in; but the place hadn’t been broken into. The job had been done with remarkable skill, so that not a trace of the murderer was left. Consequently, all that was left for the police to do was to consider whether they knew of any one whose methods agreed with those of this murderer.</p>
			<p>“Well, they did know of such a person, but they had nothing against him but suspicion. He had never been convicted of any serious crime, though he had been in chokee once or twice for receiving. But there had been a number of cases of robbery with murder⁠—or rather murder with robbery, for this man seemed to have committed the murder as a preliminary precaution⁠—and they were all of this kind; a solitary crime, very skilfully carried out by means of poison. There was never any trace of the criminal; but gradually the suspicions of the police settled down on a rather mysterious individual of the name of Bendelow; Simon Bendelow. Consequently, when the Van Zellen crime came to light, they were inclined to put it on this man Bendelow, and they began making fresh inquiries about him. But presently it transpired that some one had seen a man, on the morning of the crime, coming away from the neighbourhood of Van Zellen’s house just about the time when the murder must have been committed.”</p>
			<p>“Was there anything to connect him with the crime?” Thorndyke asked.</p>
			<p>“Well, there was the time⁠—the small hours of the morning⁠—and the man was carrying a good-sized hand-bag, which seemed to be pretty heavy and which would have held the stuff that was missing. But the most important point was the man’s appearance. He was described as a smallish man, clean-shaved, with a big hooked nose and very heavy eyebrows set close down over his eyes.</p>
			<p>“Now this put Bendelow out of it as the principal suspect, because the description didn’t fit him at all” (here I caught Thorndyke’s eye for an instant and was warned afresh, and not unnecessarily, to make no comment); “but,” continued the Superintendent, “it didn’t put him out altogether. For the man whom the description did fit⁠—and it fitted him to a T⁠—was a fellow named Crile⁠—Jonathan Crile⁠—who was a pal of Bendelow’s and was known to have worked with him as a confederate in the receiving business and had been in prison once or twice. So the police started to make inquiries about Crile, and before long they were able to run him to earth. But that didn’t do them much good; for it turned out that Crile wasn’t in New York at all. He was in Philadelphia; and it was clearly proved that he had been there on the day of the murder, on the day before and the day after. So they seemed to have drawn a blank; but they were still a bit suspicious of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Crile, who seems to have been as downy a bird as his friend Bendelow, and of the other chappie, too. But they hadn’t a crumb of evidence against either.</p>
			<p>“So there the matter stuck. A complete deadlock. There was nothing to be done; for you can’t arrest a man on mere suspicion with not a single fact to support it. But the police kept their eye on both gents, so far as they could, and presently they got a chance. Bendelow made a slip⁠—or, at any rate, they said he did. It was a little trumpery affair, something in the receiving line, and of no importance at all. Probably, a faked charge, too. But they thought that if they could get him arrested they might be able to squeeze something out of him⁠—the police in America can do things that we aren’t allowed to. So they tried to pounce on him. But <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bendelow was a slippery customer, and he got wind of their intentions just in time. When they got into his rooms they found that he had left⁠—in a deuce of a hurry, too, and only a few minutes before they arrived. They searched the place, but found nothing incriminating, and they tried to get on Bendelow’s track, but they didn’t succeed. He had managed to get clear away, and Crile seemed to have disappeared, too.</p>
			<p>“Well, that seemed to be the end of the affair. Both of these crooks had made off without leaving a trace, and the police⁠—having no evidence⁠—didn’t worry any more about them. And so things went on for about a year, until the Van Zellen case had been given up and nearly forgotten. Then something happened quite recently that gave the police a fresh start.</p>
			<p>“It appears that there was a fire in the house in which Bendelow’s rooms were, and a good deal of damage was done, so that they had to do some rebuilding; and in the course of the repairs, the builder’s men found, hidden under the floor-boards, a small parcel containing part of the Van Zellen swag. There was nothing of real value; just coins and medals and seal-rings and truck of that kind. But the things were all identified by means of Van Zellen’s catalogue, and, of course, the finding of them in what had been Bendelow’s rooms put the murder pretty clearly on to him.</p>
			<p>“On this, as you can guess, the police and the detective agencies got busy. They searched high and low for the missing man, but for a long time they could pick up no traces of him. At last they discovered that he and Crile had taken a passage nearly a year ago on a tramp steamer bound for England. Thereupon they sent a very smart, experienced detective over to work at the case in conjunction with our own detective department.</p>
			<p>“But we didn’t have much to do with it. The American⁠—Wilson was his name⁠—had all the particulars, with the prison photographs and finger-prints of both the men, and he made most of the inquiries himself. However, there were two things that we did for him. We handed over to him the Van Zellen guinea and the particulars of the D’Arblay murder; and we were able to inform him that his friend, Bendelow, was dead.”</p>
			<p>“How did you find that out?” Thorndyke asked.</p>
			<p>“Oh, quite by chance. One of our men happened to be at Somerset House looking up some details of a will when in the list of wills he came across the name of Simon Bendelow, which he had heard from Wilson himself. He at once got out the will, copied out the address of the executrix and the names and addresses of the witnesses, and handed them over to Wilson, who was mightily taken aback, as you may suppose. However, he wasn’t taking anything for granted. He set off instantly to look up the executrix⁠—a <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Morris. But there he got another disappointment, for the Morrises had gone away and no one knew where they had gone.”</p>
			<p>“I take it,” said Thorndyke, “that probate of the will had been granted.”</p>
			<p>“Yes; everything in that way had been finished up. Well, on this, Wilson went off in search of the witnesses, and he had better luck this time. They were two elderly spinsters who lived together in a house in Turnpike-lane, Hornsey. They didn’t know much about Bendelow, for they had only made his acquaintance after he had taken to his bed. They were introduced to him by his friend and landlady, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Morris, who used to take them up to his room to talk to him and cheer him up a bit. However, they knew all about his death, for they had seen him in his coffin and they followed him to the Ilford Crematorium.”</p>
			<p>“Ha!” said Thorndyke. “So he was cremated.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” chuckled the Superintendent, with a sly look at Thorndyke. “I thought that would make you prick up your ears, Doctor. Yes, there were no half measures for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bendelow. He had gone literally to ashes. But it was all right, you know. There couldn’t have been any hanky panky. These two ladies had not only seen him in his coffin; they actually had a last look at him through a little celluloid window in the coffin-lid, just before the coffin was passed through into the cremation furnace.”</p>
			<p>“And there was no doubt as to his identity?”</p>
			<p>“None whatever. Wilson showed the old ladies his photograph, and they recognized him instantly; picked his photograph out of a dozen others.”</p>
			<p>“Where was Bendelow living when they made his acquaintance?”</p>
			<p>“Not far from their house; in Abbey-road, Hornsey. But the Morrises moved afterwards to Market-street, Hoxton, and that is where he died and where the will was signed.”</p>
			<p>“I suppose Wilson ascertained the cause of death?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes. The old ladies told him that. But he went to Somerset House and got a copy of the death certificate. I haven’t got that, as he took it back with him; but the cause of death was cancer of the pylorus⁠—that’s some part of the gizzard, I believe, but you’ll know all about it. At any rate, there was no doubt on the subject, as the two doctors made a post-mortem before they signed the death certificate. It was all perfectly plain and straightforward.</p>
			<p>“Well, so much for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bendelow. When Wilson had done with him, he turned his attention to Crile. And then he really did get a proper shake-up. When he was at Somerset House, looking up Bendelow’s death certificate, it occurred to him just to run his eye down the list and make sure that Crile was still in the land of the living. And there, to his astonishment, he found Crile’s name. He was dead, too! And not only was he dead: he, also, had died of cancer⁠—it was the pancreas this time; another part of the gizzard⁠—and he had died at Hoxton, too, and he had died just four days before Bendelow. The thing was ridiculous. It looked like a conspiracy. But here again everything was plain and above-board. Wilson got a copy of the certificate and called on the doctor who had signed it, a man named Usher. Of course, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Usher remembered all about the case as it had occurred quite recently. There was not a shadow of doubt that Crile was dead. Usher had helped to put him in his coffin and had attended at his funeral; and he, too, had no difficulty in picking out Crile’s photograph, and he had no doubt at all as to what Crile died of. So there it was. Queer as it looked, there was no denying the plain facts. Those two crooks had slipped through the fingers of the law, so far as it was possible to see.</p>
			<p>“But I must admit that I was not quite satisfied; the circumstances were so remarkably odd. I told Wilson so, and I advised him to look further into the matter. I reminded him of the D’Arblay murder and the finding of that guinea, but he said that the murder was our affair, that the men he had come to look for were dead, and that was all that concerned him. So back he went to New York, taking with him the death certificates and the two photographs with the certificates of recognition on the backs of them. But he left the notes of the case with me, on the chance that they might be useful to me, and the two sets of finger-prints, which certainly don’t seem likely to be of much use under the circumstances.”</p>
			<p>“You never know,” said Thorndyke, with an enigmatical smile.</p>
			<p>The Superintendent gave him a quick, inquisitive look and agreed: “No, you don’t, especially when you are dealing with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> John Thorndyke.” He pulled out his watch, and, staring at it anxiously, exclaimed: “What a confounded nuisance! I’ve got an appointment at the Law Courts in five minutes. It is quite a small matter. Won’t take me more than half an hour. May I come back when I have finished? I should like to hear what you think of this extraordinary story.”</p>
			<p>“Come back, by all means,” said Thorndyke, “and I will turn over the facts in my mind while you are gone. Possibly some suggestion may present itself in the interval.”</p>
			<p>He let the officer out, and when the hurried footsteps had died away on the stairs he closed the door and turned to me with a smile.</p>
			<p>“Well, Gray,” he said, “what do you think of that? Isn’t it a very pretty puzzle for a medical jurist?”</p>
			<p>“It is a hopeless tangle to me,” I replied. “My brain is in a whirl. You can’t dispute the facts, and yet you can’t believe them. I don’t know what to make of the affair.”</p>
			<p>“You note the fact that, whoever may be dead, there is somebody alive⁠—very much alive, and that that somebody is the murderer of Julius D’Arblay.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, I realize that. But obviously he can’t be either Crile or Bendelow. The question is: Who is he?”</p>
			<p>“You note the link between him and the Van Zellen murder; I mean the electrotype guinea?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, there is evidently some connexion, but I can’t imagine what it can be. By the way, you noticed that the American police had got muddled about the personal appearance of these two men. The description of that man who was seen coming away from Van Zellen’s house, and who was said to be quite unlike Bendelow, actually fitted him perfectly. They had evidently made a mistake of some kind.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, I noticed that. But the description may have fitted Crile better. We must get into touch with this man, Usher. I wonder if he will be the Usher who used to attend at <abbr>St.</abbr> Margaret’s.”</p>
			<p>“He is; and I am in touch with him already. In fact, he was telling me about this very patient, Jonathan Crile.”</p>
			<p>“Indeed! Can you remember the substance of what he told you?”</p>
			<p>“I think so. It wasn’t very thrilling.” And here I gave him, as well as I could remember them, the details with which Usher had entertained me of his attendance on the late Jonathan Crile, his dealings with the landlady, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Pepper, and the incidents of the funeral, including Usher’s triumphant return in the mourning coach. It seemed a dull and trivial story, but Thorndyke listened to it with the keenest interest, and when I had finished he asked: “He didn’t happen to mention where Crile lived, I suppose?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, curiously enough, he did. The address, I remember, was 52, Field-street, Hoxton.”</p>
			<p>“Ha!” said Thorndyke. “You are a mine of information, Gray.”</p>
			<p>He rose and, taking down from the bookshelves Phillip’s Atlas of London, opened it and pored over one of the maps. Then, replacing the Atlas, he got out his notes of the D’Arblay case and searched for a particular entry. It was evidently quite a short one, for when he had found it he gave it but a single glance and closed the portfolio. Then, returning to the bookshelves, he took out the Post Office Directory and opened it at the “streets” section. Here also his search was but a short one though it appeared to be concerned with two separate items; for, having examined one, he turned to a different part of the section to find the other. Finally he closed the unwieldy volume and, having replaced it on the shelf, turned and once more looked at me inquiringly.</p>
			<p>“Reflecting on what Miller has told us,” he said, “does anything suggest itself to you? Any sort of hypothesis as to what the real facts may be?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing whatever,” I replied. “The confusion that was already in my mind is only the worse confounded. But that is not your case, I take it.”</p>
			<p>“Not entirely,” he admitted. “The fact is that I had already formed a hypothesis as to the motives and circumstances which lay behind the murder of Julius D’Arblay, and I find this new matter not inconsistent with it. But that hypothesis may, nevertheless, turn out to be quite wrong when we put it to the test of further investigation.”</p>
			<p>“You have some further investigation in view, then.”</p>
			<p>“Yes. I am going to make a proposal to Superintendent Miller⁠—and here he comes, before his time; by which I judge that he, also, is keen on the solution of this puzzle.”</p>
			<p>Thorndyke’s opinion seemed to be justified, for the Superintendent entered all agog, and opened the subject at once.</p>
			<p>“Well, Doctor, I suppose you have been thinking over Wilson’s story? How does it strike you? Have you come to any conclusion?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” replied Thorndyke. “I have come to the conclusion that I can’t accept that story at its face value as representing the actual facts.”</p>
			<p>Miller laughed with an air of mingled amusement and vexation. “That is just my position,” said he. “The story seems incredible, but yet you can’t raise any objection. The evidence in support of it is absolutely conclusive at every point. There isn’t a single weak spot in it⁠—at least, I haven’t found one. Perhaps you have?” And here he looked at Thorndyke with eager inquiry in his eyes.</p>
			<p>“I won’t say that,” Thorndyke replied. “But I put it to you, Miller, that the alleged facts that are offered are too abnormal to be entertained. We cannot accept that string of coincidences. It must be obvious to you that there is a fallacy somewhere and that the actual facts are not what they seem.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, I feel that, myself,” rejoined Miller. “But what are we to do? How are we to find the flaw in the evidence, if there is one? Can you see where to look for it? I believe you can.”</p>
			<p>“I think there is one point which ought to be verified,” said Thorndyke. “The identification of Crile doesn’t strike me as perfectly convincing.”</p>
			<p>“How does his case differ from Bendelow’s?” Miller demanded.</p>
			<p>“In two respects,” was the reply. “First, Bendelow was identified by two persons who had known him well for some time and who gave a most circumstantial account of his illness, his death, and the disposal of his body; and second, Bendelow’s remains have been cremated and are therefore, presumably, beyond our reach for purposes of identification.”</p>
			<p>“Well,” Miller objected, “Crile isn’t so very accessible, being some few feet under ground.”</p>
			<p>“Still, he is there; and he has been buried only a few weeks. It would be possible to exhume the body and settle the question of his identity once for all.”</p>
			<p>“Then you are not satisfied with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Usher’s identification?”</p>
			<p>“No. Usher saw him only after a long, wasting illness, which must have altered his appearance very greatly; whereas the photograph was taken when Crile was in his normal health. It couldn’t have been so very like Usher’s patient.”</p>
			<p>“That’s true,” said Miller; “and I remember that Usher wasn’t so very positive, according to Wilson. But he agreed that it seemed to be the same man; and all the other facts seemed to point to the certainty that it was really Crile. Still, you are not satisfied? It’s a pity Wilson took the photograph back with him.”</p>
			<p>“The photograph is of no consequence,” said Thorndyke. “You have the finger-prints; properly authenticated finger-prints, actually taken from the man in the presence of witnesses. After this short time it will be possible to get perfectly recognizable finger-prints from the body, and those finger-prints will settle the identity of Usher’s patient beyond any possible doubt.”</p>
			<p>The Superintendent scratched his chin thoughtfully. “It’s a bit of a job to get an exhumation order,” said he. “Before I raise the question with the Commissioner, I should like to have a rather more definite opinion from you. Do you seriously doubt that the man in that coffin is Jonathan Crile?”</p>
			<p>“It is my opinion,” replied Thorndyke⁠—“of course, I may be wrong⁠—but it is my considered opinion that the Crile who is in that coffin is not the Crile whose finger-prints are in your possession.”</p>
			<p>“Very well, Doctor,” said Miller, rising and picking up his hat, “that is good enough for me. I won’t ask you for your reasons because I know you won’t give them. But I have known you long enough to feel sure that you wouldn’t give a definite opinion like that unless you had got something pretty solid to go on. And I don’t think we shall have any difficulty about the exhumation order after what you have said.”</p>
			<p>With this the Superintendent took his leave, and very shortly afterwards Thorndyke carried me off to lunch at his club before dismissing me to take up my duties at the studio.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
